Call for Participation: SWIB12 "Semantic Web in Bibliotheken" (Semantic Web in Libraries) Conference, 26.11. - 28.11.2012, Cologne

To an ever increasing extent Linked Open Data (LOD) is developing into a mainstream topic, with more and more organisations announcing LOD projects and services. Furthermore and during the last two years Linked Open Data has received a lot more attention from the library world. Examples ranging from the Library of Congress' initiative "A Bibliographic Framework for the Digital Age", the Conference of European National Librarians and their vote to support the open licensing of their data to groups like LODLAM, IFLA'S Semantic Web Special Interest Group, to  library system vendors and providers discussing and experimenting with Linked Data technology clearly reflect that -  LOD has gained a lot of momentum in library land.

The question is how to ensure that LOD won't be a temporary hype but that it will take hold in future infrastructures. SWIB12  will focus on  the adaption of Semantic Web approaches in applications for libraries and science. In the last years lots of effort has been put into generating LOD datasets from legacy systems and into promoting the LOD approach towards a global and open information space. Upcoming challenges will be the strategic and technical alignment of catalogues and legacy systems in libraries, and authoring environments for scholarly communication with a data and service infrastructure based on Semantic Web principles.

This year's SWIB conference (Semantic Web in Bibliotheken) will be held in Cologne from 26-28 November 2012. As in the years before, SWIB12 will be organized by the North Rhine-Westphalian Library Service Center (hbz) and the ZBW - German National Library of Economics /  Leibniz Information Centre for Economics. The conference language is English.

We appreciate proposals (research reports, projects, work in progress, ...) on the following or related topics:

* Integration of Linked Data into productive library environments

* Technologies for providing, accessing and integrating Linked Data in a non-disruptive and lightweighted way, e.g. by means of APIs or WebServices


* Enhancing authoring environments like Content Management Systems, blogs or wikis with Semantic Web facilities, e.g. by accessing Linked Open Datasets or by including semantic markup

* Enhancing legacy data through integration of data from the LOD cloud or through FRBRizing, deduplication, crowdsourcing etc.

* Applications using authority data maintained by libraries and possibly enriched by the community

* Development of commercial or non-commercial library systems aligning their data models and policies with the web of data

* Licensing strategies and business models for supporting the reuse of Linked Open Data

Do you have an interesting service, research topic or project that you would like to present at the conference? We are looking forward to receiving your suggestions and proposals for contributions (with an abstract of 1000-1500 characters) by 20 May 2012. Please submit your abstract using our website at http://swib.org/swib12.


Adrian Pohl
hbz
Tel. +49-(0)221-40075235
E-mail: swib(at)hbz-nrw.de


or

Joachim Neubert
ZBW
Tel. +49-(0)40-42834462
E-mail: j.neubert(at)zbw.eu

Website: http://swib.org/swib12
Twitter: #swib12